02nd June 2016
Logbook
W2 3JR

-> Task: Reading about how to 'Designing a Survey' Part 1

	commencing @ 10.07 
	finished   @ 10.45
	
Source: 

{http://www.sciencebuddies.org/science-fair-projects/project_ideas/Soc_survey.shtml}

1.1. Key takeaways:

a) Good survey questionnaire, keep it short while ensuring that	
you capture all of the information that you need.

b) Before begin the design of survey questionnaire, a set of objectives should
be initially set and list out the information needed/trying to capture. This 
list of objectives & research goals will serve as a  plan for the survey questionnaire.

c) There are two different types of questions that can be used to collect information.
Structured or fixed response questions and non-structured or open questions.

This note will first focus on the 'Structured questions'

.> Structured questions are best suited in the following situations:
	1. When you have a thorough understanding of the responses so that you
	can appropriately develop the answer choices.
	2. When you are not trying to capture new ideas or thoughts from the
	respondent.

1.1.1.a) Do not create an overlap when defining the range.
	E.g. '0 to 1 hour' and '1 to 2 hours' is a good example rather than
	'0 to 1 hour' and '2 to 3 hour'.

1.1.1.b) 'Consistency' is very important in writing list of responses.

1.1.1.c) To capture varying degrees of person's emotion about a subject, you can
use 'Rating Question'. Keep in mind that 'Rating Question' is useful to get respondents
opinion about something.

1.1.1.d) A 'Ranking Question' is used to ask respondents how they feel about something
by comparing it to other items in a list. The disadvantage to a 'Ranking Question' is
that if the respondent feels the same about two or more items, they are still forced to
sort them into a ranking. The result of a ranking basically tell you which is the
most preferred and which is the least preferred item on the list, but you do not
know from a ranking if the respondent likes or dislikes any or all of the items on
the list.
