Monday, 16th May 2016
Logbook

-> Task: Continuing the MSc dissertation project draft

	commencing @ 11.00
	finished   @ 12.32

------------------ The role of computational fluid dynamics ----------------
------------------ in predicting aneurysm rupture risk ---------------------

Source	: 

'Predicting the rupture risk of brain aneurysms using computational
approaches: a HemeLB validation study'

			Rachel H. Coy

Accessed: 12th May 2016

Computational fluid dynamics (or CFD) has the potential to become a very useful(l)
tool for analysing cerebral aneurysm rupture risk, and thus provide huge benefits
for clinical decision making. CFD enables the simulation of blood flow within 
3D vascular geometries, based upon patient specific data, allowing values 
such as wall shear stress (WSS) to be calculated and analysed.

// Taken from page 4

However, there has been some criticism aimed at the use of CFD as part of the research
of aneurysm rupture risk. In particular, the sheer multitude of haemodynamic properties
being investigated has been postulated to be more confusing than helpful. Furthermore,
questions have been raised over the accuracy of current simulations and consequently
their clinical relevance.

This project is aimed to narrowed down these haemodynamce properties to make CFD 
become a reliable predictor for aneurysm rupture risk. The project collects the
requirements from clinician abroad (*in Qatar) and will produce a software using
the clinical requirements collected from the clinician.

* As mentioned in the last meeting on Tuesday, 10th May 2016; the requirements
will be given to me by July

//
Tools aimed toward the scientist. Requirement(s) will provided by the clinician 
from Qatar. Tools should be runable from command line/terminal. //

-> Task: Updating the background of MSc dissertation project

	commencing @ 16.00
	finished   @ 18.00

-> Task: Pre-write the 'Aims and Objectives' of the project

Aims and Objectives

Aims

"The research in computational fluid dynamics (CFD) investigating the rupture risks
of cerebral aneurysm is postulated to use sheer multitude haemodynamce properties.
The literature reveal that questions have been raised over the accuracy of current
simulations and consequently their clinical relevance.

This research aims to narrow the haemodynamce properties in the field of cerebral
vasculature CFD. The results will be used to build a novel tool, in the form of 
software, specifically attuned to this particular field, cerebral vasculature CFD
based upon the requirements collected from the (academia) researchers of the field."

Objectives

"The above aim will be accomplished by fulfilling the following research objectives:

1. Review the literature concerning the CFD as a predictor of CA rupture risks
including the results accuracy (?).

2. Investigate the perceptions and attitude towards the currently available tool(s)
utilising CFD in the field of CA rupture risk including the haemodynamic properties
data.

3. Compare the usage statistics between various haemodynamic properties data and 
its clinical relevance.

4. Identify if any improvements or alterations are required towards the tool (?)
